# The Arch

No matter where we slept, my brother and I, we'd always be able to see the sky.   Mostly it was was though grimy windows or pools of water gathering on artium roofs, the thin blue green band of The Arch smeared and wavy though the water and grime, but if it didn't look like we'd get rained of and if the winds weren't terrible, we'd sleep outside.  We spent hours staring up, trying to make out the details as The Arch rotated round up, always lit and glowing.  

We knew that in reality it was vast, a curve hollow loop encircling the Earth, impossibly strong, filled with green vista and blue lakes, but when laying on your back you could cover it's width with an outstretched thumb, watching the landscape disappear on one side of your nail and eventually reappear on the other side, all while your arm ached from holding it straight out inside you.   You knew it had a surface area bigger than the Earth, that it had been built as a second home for all from the crippled and poisoned planet, but it looks so slender and fragile, a crystal bangle drifting in space.

We'd been born long after the The Arch was constructed, long after they stopped shipping people up there even.  We'd read about it  on the public education screens, whilst they still worked.  Watched timelapse video of the first tracery being built and then it growing outways.  They'd built an all encompassing complete loop first, like a hyginesteel wire, all the way round the planet.  Built in sections over a decade it was by far and away the biggest man-made object even then, tonnes and tonnes of material processed on Earth and shipped up on cargo rockets.  The production processes used weren't particularly clean or even efficiant, they didn't have to be, they were happening in areas already so toxic that we barely lived there any more.  Once the loop was completed and continious, we did the unthinkable and spun it.  Huge engines started it spinning, the speed building up over a year, artifical stars crossing the sky the world over.   So slowly at first you probably couldn't even tell, the speed building up and up, the friction of the very reaches of the atmosphere no impediment to sheer brute power being poured out into the universe, The Loop as it was called then stabalised and the force settled all the joints, pulling it taut and smoothng out the enevitable variations of anyting so big.   It took a decade to decellerate too, once the the ramjets were all extinguished at the same time, the blazing trail of lights winking out at the same instance to maintain the balance.

The world didn't wait as The Loop slowed, there was a herculean amount to prepare, ready for that first lifter rocket to start the process of turning The Loop into the Arch.  From the Earth we watched as hair fine silvery wires crept out from The Loop, widening it, thickening it and growing the continious metalic valley.  An entire generation watched as the The Arch formed and solidified, an entire generation who worked to ship materials up into space, to a land they would never see.

Terrafroming The Arch took another generation. The details about how aren't there on the EduScreens, just the results, there's no explaination about where all that water came from, or the first batches of soil.  Eventually The Arch would be self sustaining, but it had to get a start somewhere, and that somewhere was Earth.  The silver grey band was slowly covered up with mottled browns and blues.  Eventually green swept across the The Arch as the vegitation grew out.   Deep green arborial forest faded out to bright green verdant plains which bordered on vast blue oceans and lakes.  The screens tell us of all the work that went into accelaerating the growth of the vegitation and the stocking of the water, the genetically engineered plants and animals, made on Earth, shipped into space and clones on industrial scale never seen before or since.  Ecosystems are endlessly complex.  Soil is a living, breathing thing, and you can't skip any of the layers of the hierachy or it doesn't work.

It didn't all go smoothly, it was never going to.  There are stories of plagues of inserts that had to be controlled, when it turned out that the breeding rates hadn't been correctly calculated, stories of lakes that went from sterile pools to being so jammed with fish nothing could move and eventually onto rotting cesspits of flesh when the food ran out and this over population of fish all died.  There are graphs and animation, maths about fixes and rabbits being used to explain something everybody knows, with man plays god he's got a lot to learn.

We did though, learn.  Maybe it was justa matter of time.  A centuray after the animally were shipped up into space, the ecology had settled another for people to start living on The Arch, for the first generation to be born there who would never walk this Earth, and that's when the dream crashed and burnt, as it always was going to, as the conspiricy theorists had screamed about for multiple generations.  They left almost everybody, and they made sure we'd not be joining them.

The founders of The Arch must have always planned this, though how that message was kept as quiet as it was though multiple generations, we'll never know.   The first lifts of people to be shipped up were explorers and adventurers, they had to be, they were collonists to a new land, all be it a less hostile one tha the other places we'd tried.  This wasn't the grey dusty vacuum of the moon, or the eyeseering red desert of Mars where we'd long ago given up trying to live, it was a green and pleasent land, the air breathable, the animals edible, the water drinkable.  Thousands of families were shipped up, to live in the first townships and villages.   Over another decade more and more people left the Earth to go and live in the highly controlled environent of The Arch.  We don't know what life it like up there now, we've not had direct communications with them since The Fall, but the EduScreen still had the promotional videos, with families living in wide open villages, all electricty provided by the solar installations on the outside of the The Arch, everything that needed to be manufactorer being made by the industrial printing services from material recycled and broken back down into it's raw chemicals.  Nodoubt that didn't last all that long, humans being what they are, but my brother and I will never know and I guess nobody down here ever will.

We dond't know our parents, neither of us remember them and we've nothing to find out who they were.  We've our names, which we think they must have given us, but could just as easly have come from the institution they left us at when they were selected to go.  We know they went, that was very clear to us, along with all the other poor bastard children who were left behind, but we don't know why we didn't go.  Maybe they just didn't want us, a fresh start, a new adventure together.  They would have been young enough to have more children and maybe that felt right to them.  More likely my brother and I didn't pass one of the medical checks.  It's unlikely to have been anything genetic, or our parents wouldn't have got to go.  Whatever the battery of tests was run in the clinical white pods that are still down here, the light went red, and we stayed, whilst they went off to their new life.  It's the same story for hundreds of millions of people, and they weren't happy.  We don't know quite how it went down, but the results are everywhere around us.

The World Government cut us off.  Or rather they cut the Arch off.  All the lift sites, where the huge Arch Landers took off from and glided back into were destroyed in a wave of explosions that spanned the planet.  They were probably destoyed by exposives and nuclear weapons long since buried, or more likely The Arch rained that death down on us from above.  The satalite communications will have gone down at the same time.  Since the days of The Loop there have been ground to space communications in place, but now it all went dark, all in one go.  There was no chance some anybody to sneak something in the other direct, to try and retaliate, The Arch just cut the cord and we were left stranded.

The Earth was already in pretty dire states.  The oceans were ruined, long gone as a food source, even after we'd found ways to eat algee and plankton.  The skys had turned against us after centuaies of abuse.  Most bird had died out long ago, their generics on record and a few live examples being kept in private collections for the entertainment of their owners, loney owls, caged hawks, even small flocks of swallows and starlings.  The land was gone forever.  Where we hadn't built we'd drilled or dug, dumped or gouged.  We'd bred and spread, destroying almost everything The Earth had left to give.  That's why The Arch was the only answer, we couldn't clean up the Earth.  There was no space left, and there were no materials to work with.  We had the technology to print almost anything we needed given enough raw materials, but we couldn't get rid of the really nasty stuff.  There wasn't enough energy on to clean up the mire we were living and dying in.

The Arch was a fresh start.  Endless power from solar could be used to run it, charging the Lifters for their next run and even shipping energy back to the Earth to drive the vast industry that was turning the toxic wasteland into the pristine materials the The Arch was made of.  That left behind all the things that couldn't be reprocessed and broken down, all the really nasty stuff, including humanity.

The must have been a tipping point where those in charge realised that The Arch was going to be a much nicer and more sustainable place to live if they stopped where they were and stopped lifting people up.  There were already several million people living up there, a deep enough genetic pool to stop anything too bad happening for a few milenia, all screened for anything too nasty and all living a painfully clean life up there.  Why bring the masses?  Why take the risk of dragging genetic abnormalities up into thier utopia?  Better off to quit whilst they were ahead and give those already there the best chance to survive.  The Earth had had it's day and eveyrbody knew it, that's why the collecive population of the Earth had spent almost four generations building and populating it, whilst the population of Earth limped on, raked with the increasing bacterial load, untreatable viruses, food shortages, clear water shortages and no viable economy other other than prodiving for The Archm their shining retirment to the stars.  So they did it, they cut us off and so far as we know, never looked back.  We don't know, obviously, but there has never been any know attempts at communication.   We know they're all still alive, we occationally see something that could only be human activity as we stare up into the night sky.

The global uprising and chaos that followed was a self forfilling prophecy.  People rose up and took to the streets, fighting everything around them, regardless of whther it could possibly have een anything to do with the severing.  Authority figures from heads of industry to buildings supervisors were torn from their already miserable lives and hung in the streets.  Buildings were looted and burnt.  Anything related to The Arch was attacked and battered, from the Lifter sites to the advertising hoardings, it was torn out, smashed, set light to and ruined in an orgy if fury and dispare that burnt itself out as quickly as it started.  The entire population of the world that was left knew what had happened, knew that there was no escaping the crippled planet and collectively sank into a state of fuge that it never recovered from.

The population volume plumitted, as best we can tell, with the next decare seeing people giving up on life.  Suicide rates skyrocketed, the hedonistic lifestyles of those who decided to burn bright soon burnt them out, rates of child mortality also shot up, but it didn't matter because people stopped having children.  Who would want to bring a child into this world?  The cheap synthetic drugs that could be printed in seoncds for a few cents give better and longer highs than sex ever could and as the population succumbed to the reality that they were fucked, fucking stopped.

That's the world my brother and grew up in.  Surnameless, we left the institutional orphanage when it because obvious that the few remaining staff weren't in any state to look after their charges, we were already well versed in the small city we lived in.  There wasn't very much we'd not climbed, explored, broken into or poked though, looking for anything we could use.  What survived the short lived violence was generally untouched since their owners smashed their vehicals at high speed, blasted thier brains agains the walls or their heart stopped as they surfed a wave of electic crimson lightening from a tiny pill.   We picked out way around, with no real direction, learning from EduScreens that still functioned, entertained by the detritus of societies we've never understand, on our journey to, well, somewhere else.

As we stare up at The Arch to night I've no idea how old we are, or what's next.  We've nowhere and everywhere to go, nobody and and everybody to do it with.  We'll never see a parrot or a lion or even bear out here in the broken shells of the cities we cross through, but tonight that doesn't mattter, as The Arch slowly crosses my thumb and my arm aches.  