
# Dreaming

May 30, 2015

The alley swayed a little and swam into view as I leaned against the wall, my knees finally giving way until I ended up squatting down, almost in the rain shadow of the building, but not quite. My skull ached, my brain feel like it was trying to force its way out though my eyes and my teeth felt too big in my face. Squeezing my eyes shut and burying my face in my soaking knees I tried to focus on the images I could still see, nothing making sense, half remembered, half seen, colours that changed when you tried to really see them, focus blurring and images fading from one to another, this was the worst it had ever been. Sometimes I could pick out thoughts that had blasted through my brain inside the pod days afterwards, or found myself humming a tune with no recollection of how I knew it, but it had never been this vivid before. No wonder I was credits up, this was a whole new game.

Eventually my knees got the better of me and it was time to stand up, get my shit together, and head back to my bunk, navigating the alleys and flyovers with one hand on the wall to ground me. As I set off, trying to ignore how cold and soaked I was (that rain really was heavier than I’d noticed with I left) everything felt like it’s intensity had been turned up. LED advertising signs in the disreputable tiny tech emporiums and washshops hurt my eyes to look at. Even staring at the ground didn’t help because the reflections were too sharp, their colours acidic and nauseating. I could feel my feet slapping the ground and it’s rough texture and I must have been hallucinating because I kept hearing birdsong over the city noise and that clearly wasn’t real.

Nobody wants to get into podding, its just the only thing they have going for them. I’d read on the screens that hundreds of years ago people selling their blood was considered the last dignity, stretching your body for profit in the only way you had left. Every mother fuck bleeds, even those with a face too ruined to get cash for blowjobs. I’d sold plasma, urine, skin, hair and a kidney though the chain of medical stores. Now don’t get me wrong, I’m sure every high-liver up there living on The Arch or the few remaining Towers would have looked down on me for all of these, but really, everybody I saw these days sold their body one bit at a bit, especially the consumables. Blood regenerated, skin regrew and everybodys got to piss so you might as well try and give them a whole litre and pick up the centi-credit for it, but podding was in a whole new league.

Before podding, computing power was cheap. You could rent cycles for next to nothing, from your comm, and have the results of mind bending maths back in seconds, but the catch was that really, you did the hard work. You wrote code, you figured out how proteins folded, you crafted that plan than the dumb-ass computers followed. Sure they were so fast that you could do just about anything, but you had to know what you were doing, and those people were few and far between (and I know, I am , or was, one of them).

Podding turned things on its head. When you slip the warm stale skullcap onto you freshly shaved and oiled head, you because the computer. Or rather, you became part of the computer. A whiff of some form of analgesic dropped you out from reality until your time was up, and the skullcap started tingling your brain, pushing thoughts and imagines into your head for your brain to work on. It’s not an exact science (we tried that) so the cap doesn’t ask your brain a complex maths questions and then read back the answer, instead imagines, sounds and strings of letters and numbers are streamed into you and somehow the brain manages to figure out whats going on. It’s sort of like dreaming in reverse. The system behind the skullcaps is vast and unwieldy. It’s primary purpose is to turns complex problems into the datascape the skullcap feeds Podders and then to compare and meld the results it gets from multiple podders all working on the same datascape. Humans being humans, no two brains are the same and so by meshing results a better answer is found. Often the results will themselves be datascapes to be fed back into other Podders, dreams about dreams to be gently slid into Podders heads to be cogitated and mulled over.

That’s what all the promo vids we made were like anyway. Happy models, slipping into a fantastic dream they’d never quite remember and getting paid to curl up on a leatherette couch inside the space age egg whilst they found the cure for cancer. We even made some so glossy and bile inducing by showing whole families going off on “Podder Holidays” together, nestled into a four seater pod, all euphoric and rich when they emerged. I’ve no idea how we ate our own bullshit.

In the early days, podding really was quite a pleasant experience. The pods themselves with new and shiny, freshly spritzed after every user, the couches cool to the touch and still full of stuffing. You and your idiot family would still have been morons to go on a Podding Holiday, but it was ok. After a few hours your were credits up and aside from a bit of mild confusion like you’d just woken up, none the worse for wear.

Sadly, nice shit does not scale (as somebody, I’ve no idea who now) yelled at our team as we tried to figure out how to push more an more computing though people’s brains and thus drive the cost down. We started with just ramping up the speed of datascapes, and that worked, but it started to punch through the anaesthetic and wake people up. People who came up off the couch like a rocket from a crypt, tearing at the skullcaps, their scalps, even their faces. That was pretty fucked up the first few times it happened. I cant forget those.

So we doubled up the drugs, then we changed drugs, then we doubled up the new drugs and finally we had something that worked. People sank into a deep coma like state and we were free to fire up their brains and push through 10 times more computing. I did wonder at the tie what would happen if we juiced them up to the same levels without the drugs, but I pushed that thought deep down. Those poor fuckers would have torn themselves to pieces.

We didn’t just release this new 10x product on the public though, that would have just been plain wrong. We just introduced a new tiering scheme. “Social Podders” now got rewarded less for their brain power but get promised pictures of kittens and flowery music (or something), and “Power Podders” get paid twice as much and earned “Pod Points” too, completely useless virtual credits you could turn into hats or whatever. Meanwhile we’re ramming 10x and then 15x more datascapes through these poor bastards until their brains were practically boiling in their brain pan. So on and so forth, we pulled the same tricks time and time again. Obviously we quietly dropped the tweet as fuck adverts with families and upsold the league tables, reward and extra credits but eventually all that would go to.

Stopping on a flyover I realise I’m lost. I know where I’m going, and I knew how I was getting there, but right now, I don’t know exactly where I am or whether or not I’m even on the right level. I’m too high really, I’ve not lived up here for years, but the air is a bit cooler and fresher and the sky that bit clearer. I must have taken a lift tube at some point because I’m at least a hundred stories up, maybe more. It’s stopped raining though and I’m out of the wind here behind the plasti-metal sheeting. I keep trudging on, I’ll come to somewhere I recognise eventually. Nothing is that far away if you’ve got a whole night to get home.

Podshops started to spring up all over the place. We franchised them out, renting the kit to the increasingly unscrupulous owners and piping data into them at such a rate that we had to buy up networking providers and telecomms companies. That didn’t matter, we were so cash rich we couldn’t spent it fast enough. “Real” computing was in decline and increasingly the businesses we sold computing power to were using pod-crunching to replace silicon. No longer were out “pod partners” helping to solve the sort of problems that computers just couldn’t solve, they were crunching invoices and rendering images, decrypting and mining data. We’d solved the problem of how to do normal computing and now we were just turning up the dial on the business.

It was around this time that the first cases of burn out happened. Our early podders had been spending multiple hours a day podding for over ten years now and the signs were starting to show. The early symptoms showed like Alzheimer’s and in many cases were written off as such. Forgetfulness, personality changes, loss of self awareness, they were nothing the medical world hadn’t been dealing with for years, and our PR machine certainly fought ever mention of it being related to podding, but we knew it was probably just the tip of the iceberg. These wrecks had spent a lot of their early podding time on 2x or 3x throughput at the most. The drug we’d misted their faces with wouldn’t even make most modern podders blink, but over time the cases got worse and the number of podders affected increased until eventually we couldn’t deny it any more. Podding burnt your brain out. Like the party drugs of the last millennium (ha! I’m sure I could crunch down a hundred doses of MDMA and still function) we’d run the brain too hard and too fast for too long, in exchange for too little credits.

I say we, there was no we by then, just me. The really smart ones could see it coming. As podshops popped up all around the world the board quietly moved on to other things, selling their seats and shares for astronomic sums so they could “spend more time with their families” or “pursue new adventures” and in reality buy themselves a place on The Arch a few years later, or die nostril deep in the last warm clean lakes on islands long forgotten and eye-wateringly extensive, surrounded by more adoring model-stunning wives, husbands, girlfriends, boyfriends and whores than they could fuck in a life time. Suddenly I was the last one standing, surrounded by people I didn’t know, all so credit hungry they weren’t going to let anything, let alone human lives, stand in their way.

I’m exhausted. Leaden limbed, soaked to the skin, cold and drowsy. I’m standing on a rooftop, staring out over the dying city, absolutely lost and alone. I don’t recognise anything on the skyline and there I must have got here by an old ladder, but I’ve no where else to go. I can see my bunk in my mind, but I’ve lost it in the maze of the city. Bunks are the lowest of the low really. One up from sleeping outdoors, but since the Society Order a few years ago that’s not really possible now. The orb drones will just keep zapping you until you move on if you try to sleep outside. They’ll let you stand still, and a few guys even manage to sleep leading into a door way, but really there’s no option but to find a way to pay the credits for a space in a bulk house. A few people have tried smashing the orbs or disabling them so they can get a nights sleep but it doesn’t work. At best you beat one to the ground but then a swarm of them appear and you’re fucked. You’ll survive one taser but not 3.

I hunch down against a airvent and draw my knees up to my chin. The plasti-cloth over one knee is torn and I’m bleeding from a deep gash in my knee. I must have done it tonight but since leaving the pod everything is pretty hazy and I’ve no recollection of it. Panicing I push my hand under my vest and check my credit disc is still there (it is!) Since everything collapsed I’ve had to move all my credits to a physical disk, bought on the black market and registered to a fat Hispanic women half a world away. I can’t use my EyeD any more, the tell tales in the system will alert the world to my presence as soon as I scan my eye and I’m still a wanted man, so this disc is my world. It’s like the stories of cash, physical tokens of your credits back years ago, bartering with a fictitious, meaningless substitute for the goods. My disc is my world, what’s left of it. Even my eyes aren’t mine any more, I had a back street shine job done so my iris patterns wouldn’t give me away.

When the truth about podding finally became irrepressible way around the same time as The Arch came to completion and society really started to crumble. The problem was the zombies. They’d got their names from some old mythical creature from entertainment screens, mindless, shuffling, evil creatures with no soul, and a fascination for cannibalism. Our zombies with nothing like that, or at least they didn’t try and eat you, they didn’t really do anything at all. They shuffled about, some core brain functions still operating and keeping them alive, but not in a way you’d recognise. The first few fully fledged zombies appeared out of their pods whilst we were still almost keeping it together. They wandered the streets aimlessly, drifting into traffic, standing in shops staring, trying to remember what it was they did. They operated like wild animals, picking up food and eating it without any of the social norms they’d previously known. Zombies grabbed bread baskets from pavement restaurants, raided bins, ate rats that stood still too long, quite literally took candy from babies. They did was their body told them they needed to do and had no recognition they were doing it. They nested when cold in warm dark places, and when they woke moved on through the city.

Even them, we might have got it under control and denied it, but they fuckers all looked like podders. You’d always had to have a fresh shaved head for the skullcaps to work well, and the electrodes needed to be in the right spots, so regular podders often had their hair lasered off and t make matters worse (like a shaved hair isn’t obvious enough) developed pads of thick skin and sores where the electrodes nestled day in day out. Every mother fucking zombie had that shining bald pate and the 16 sores. “Dice” was once a term of pride amongst podders but the characteristic look soon became associated with the zombies and that was it, we, I, was fucked.

The government stepped in and made podding illegal. They seized the company, the money and the networks. We fled, facing changes akin to war criminals, being blamed for the downfall of all society. We ran, hard and fast and in the only way we knew, and in most cases we were lynched before getting to the plane. With The Arch opening soon and society quickly falling to pieces we were ideal scapegoats, capitalists of the highest order, vampires who bleed the weak the death and sold their souls to the highest bidder in a crashing market. I saw people I worked with torn to pieces as they fled the building after the Federals stormed it. They’d washed the news market with our story in the hour before the raid, no fear that we’d burn the evidence and evade prosecution, they didn’t intend for us to ever stand trial and we knew it. So shot themselves in their offices, others swallowed all the chemicals they could get their hands on and went out in a blaze of teeth grinding euphoria. Other seems to zombie over night, sitting catatonic as the building swarmed with marshals and the public beat the glass front of the building demanding blood.

I managed to slip away. I’d not been born on the high levels, I’d just ended up there because of my maths brain and so when the shit really did hit the fan, I remembered my roots and got out of there as fast as possible. I ended up in a service tunnel, ditching my jacket and slinking away in a filthy coverall I found on the way. I only just made it, our EyeDs and bio profiles were public an hour later and we were getting called out by bullitin boards on our way past. I went to see my dealer who I was pretty certain would sell me a disc and forget I was ever there (enough money to buy whatever you want will do that). Roll forward five years and here I am, still alive, probably the last of us, and flat broke. Eventually that disc was deactivated and my credit stolen (sorry, re-appropriated by the Fedrals) and I had to buy another one, weirdly another fat Hispanic women, starting from scratch, selling my last good resource, my brain.

Podding never went away of course, it’s just underground these days and that’s improved nothing. Running the risk of being caught with an illegal shop just motivates the podshoppers to turn up the juice and get as much out of you for as little credit as possible, and who can blame them, it’s all we did after all. Of course we were running a legitimate business so lots of the thing that have crept in nowadays we’d never have considered. Skullcaps now have tiny fine needles in them for better conduction (and cross contamination). Power levels and matching compensation are available way in advance of the 15x we once peddled. You can even sign your life away to provide credits for others and have your brain burnt out by processing at 100x and above. You’ll never survive, at least concious, but your kids will eat that week. I dread to think about what else goes on in the illegal podshops I’ve heard rumours of memory harvesting, slave farming and even running setups without the drugs, it’s a living horror out there. I still run at 20x for a few credits a time, but even I’m starting to be tempted by moving on to something harder.

The weak sun is coming up over the horizon, The Arch twinkling overhead, forever lit on this side of the Earth like a painful reminder of our status. I’d even fancy I can feel it’s warmth on my face but it’s probably just the datascopes lingering after effects. I stand, knees protesting, head heavy, and stare out at the alien city. It’s not my old town where I knew all the best places and people, lived the high life until it all crashed down around me. When I fled I ran hard and fast, I must be thousands of kilometres from there now. It’s not even the city I’ve lived in for the last few years, its mixed up and stirred alternative reality. I can see a few recognizable Towers and buildings, but I can’t make sense of it, I’ve no idea how to get from here to my bunk, and whilst I can see every detail of my bunk and the bunkhouse it’s in, I can picture the entrance or really remember the last time I’d gone through the door (or arch, or portal or fuck it, maybe it’s down a shaft). It’s finally happening to me, and it’s faster than I can imagine. It was time.

The orb hovered over the face down body and scanned for signs of live. When none were found it dropped closer and with one functional move, rolled the body over face up. A brief moment of laser work removed an eyelid and a second later scanning finished. Finding nothing it could make sense of it tried the other eyeball, the eyelid smouldering slightly as it fell away. The orb buzzed frustratedly and sent out a signal for a patrolman, maybe a human could make sense of the creature it bobbed over.

Scanning the body with a handheld, he found the telltale sign of a the disc. Not wanting to touch the filthy body, repulsive at the best of times with the bald head and supperating sores, let alone after a fall of a hundred floors, he lasered open the layers of fithy clothes and gingerly picked up the dented bronze disc.

“You know, this is the first disc I’ve seen in years, really years. Fucker much be old school” “He’s not old school, he’s a fucking zombie, look at his head. Probably wandered off the roof without even knowing it. Plug it in, see who he is, we’ll split the credit unless you want to fight about it” “Fine fine, give me a second. I’m going to want to antibac my whole body after we’re done here, I don’t want to touch it”

The disc finally fitted into the reader, being dented and bent with age and the screen showed up the ID, picture, details and credit balance.

“Four credits? Four fucking credits! My shower’s gonna be more than that, I’m not splitting anything with you.” “Have it, it’s stolen anyway, look at the deets. No way it this skinny white splattered mother fucking zombie that fat whore. Probably took the disc after he finished trying to eat her” “Yeah, and that took all fucking week anyway!”

They wandered off, leaving the orb to do it’s work and clean up the body it squatted over, the credit for the value of the messy meat remains being added to the Federal funds.

