
# The Plant

# Jan 8, 2015

Sleep was not coming easily tonight. Not a cloud in the sky and the brisk wind left him shivering and cold, wrapped in a collection of discarded industrial insulation and scavenged blankets and cloth. At least it wasn’t raining and he didn’t need to take shelter in one of the pipes or ducts. It might have been warmer, but being cooped up in a tube barely wider than his shoulders wasn’t how he wanted to sleep or wake up. Too close to being transported to another planet, or dead.

So outside it was then, here on one of the rooftops he regularly frequented. You could only get to it by a ladder on the side of the building which half way up had a sizable gap missing. He had to climb five or six floors, then once his hands reached the top rung before the gap inch his hands up the exposed wall and move his feet up a rung at a time, eventually standing perilously on the top rung, fingertips grasping the end of of a pipe that jutted out way out to the right. With his left hand he’d stretch up, reaching high, extending on his right foot until his fingertips reached the solid second rung above him. Not the first rung, it was almost rusted through on one side, something he told nobody in the hope it might save his life one day, being woken from his sleep by their scream. Once his left hand was gripping tightly there was nothing for it but to push off the pipe with his right, swing it up to the rung above his left and drag himself up arm over arm, feet scrabbling at the plastimetal skin of the building until he eventually got a foot onto that sacred second rung and then onwards, upwards, to his private haven, uncomfortable and exposed, but probably safer than lots of his other hidey-holes of the night.

Shuffling round in the blankets and foils he ended up on his back, finally comfortable enough and with the bare minimum of flesh exposed to the night he stared up into the sky, his eyes eventually adjusting to pick out the star and satellites making their way slowly across the sky. The bright edge of the Arch which circled Earth like a metal halo cut a tight white line right across the sky with it’s belt of green right down the middle, the occasional lake or river barely visible even on a night like this. It was daytime on the Arch directly above him, so nobody there would be able to gaze back at him, not that they probably would want to he imagined. Who’d want to live on the spent, polluted, used up husk of the planet when they were lucky, no he corrected himself, rich enough, to live on the Arch. There were second generation Archers being born now, who’d spend their entire lives up here, never setting foot on Earth unless they chose too. Birthrates were tightly controlled he’d heard, so there was no chance of over crowding, and the gravity nets which kept the Arch supplied with raw materials from tiny meteors and other passing space detritus meant that eventually when Earth died, Arch would live on he had no doubt. It was beautiful to watch, like a fine ring of real emerald and silver, rotating slowly over the sky through the night, but it was ultimately depressing and infuriating. Half a life time ago it was the hope for all the world, and then the selection process was announced and on that day he knew he was to be one of those left behind, like everybody else he knew or had ever known. The video screens ha been full of smiling ecstatic faces, all hyped up and ready to go to their new home, the great green belt in the sky, which they’d all watched being constructed and terraformed for the preceding ten years. Celebrities of the screen were going, the ruling counsels were all going, even the damned rendered screen celerities who were nothing more than holograms were going, but nobody he knew got to go. The lottery of tickets, apparently designed to make sure that not just the wealthy and connected who’d bought their places were the only ones going didn’t seem to have lifted anybody from the fetid apartment blocks who knew.

People talked and rioted, claiming that there were no tickets for the proles and that the interviews with screaming factory workers, bagel shop employees and taxi drivers were all just holos, there to placate the lower classes and try to avoid the inevitable. Even before the rockets took off on a rapidly advanced schedule to ferry the lucky few to their new home, the streets had burnt. The exodus of leaders, doctors, factory owners and political figured was fuel to the fires. Those who were injured could not get treated, and so the hospitals and medical capsules were vandalized and burnt. The abandoned lunary homes and pods were looted and burnt, their plush furnishings thrown into the streets. Nothing was left. There were half hearted attempts to bring calm with people appearing on the screens begging for people stop, and thing about the new Earth that could be formed now that the population was “so vastly reduced”. It was all lies, being broadcast from the Arch. Maybe it was all holos and the new Arch dwellers were cutting all ties.

As the final rockets and landers left the Earths surface the stations and pads were scuttled, small charges splitting the reserve fuel tanks, the support legs, the buoyancy devices. The resulting explosions left no station functioning, no pad intact. Even those at sea were useless, sinking under the waves as they lost the battle. This to was inevitable and must have been planned for.

There had been attempts to hijack smaller landers and to invade the Arch, there were even rumors that some had made it, but eventually even these died with the sad realization that if someone had made it, fueled by the rage and injustice of it all, the last thing they were about to do was try and help those they’d left behind. They’d quietly made a life for themselves on the Arch, hiding away in the vast virgin landscape rather than in the small constructed towns, until eventually they showed their faces and the other people of the Arch recognized them for what they were, lucky, brave and safe. Nobody left on Earth wanted to admit that they too would probably have done the same. There was going to be no mutiny, no revolution, no salvation from on high. If you were Earth bound today, you were there for life.

So as the Arch came to life and three of every hundred people on the planet forged a new life together, the remaining ninety seven, battled and raged until they were spent. There was nobody left to lynch, nothing that could be done but to try and bring civilizational back together and get on with surviving. Earth was running painfully short of lots of raw materials and scavenging and barter became the way of life. Credit were still traded of course, but the wild fluctuation of the prices meant that pills, oils, fuel, battery charge and human flesh were the currencies most used and most in demand.

He’d been a younger when the Arch opened and remembered the chaos that ensued. Somewhere along the line of camps, squats, hacked pods and night huddled around fires of plastic and office furniture he’d lot his mother. He didn’t really remember when. Maybe she’d not returned one night. Maybe he’d left. It didn’t matter any more, much as he ached to know what had happened. Until he was of Work Age he’d always been hungry, always been cold, always be on edge and alert. Somewhere in those thousands of nights he and his mother had got separated and there was nothing he could do about it.

Rolling to one side and pulling a piece of the shiny, flimsy tin like insulation sheeting over his exposed head be tried to get comfortable and sleep. No pills or squirts tonight, he needed to stay sharp just in case, but as a result he could feel all uneven roof right through the blankets and was struggling to bed down. As his gaze refocused on the roof top, away from the stars and the damned Arch, be blinked to clear them. There, nestling in the lee of a roof window, was something growing, he was sure of it. Not moss or lichen or the damned slimy algae that eventual coated damp places, but an actual plant. He didn’t remember the last time he saw anything growing outside. Between the acidic rain and the pollution of the ground, air and water, there was nothing survived. He’d seen some of the foodlabs once, great rotating drums of specially engineered shoots and leafs that orbited bright white powered lighting rigs, slowly producing enough foliage to be harvested, refined and made into gellcaps for maximum efficiency, but never outside. This was an actual plant.

What was it growing in? He knew plants needed earth or some other medium (the lab plants had their roots in a sickly looking green gel) but the roof was one vast unbroken piece of plastimetal, constructed like any other remaining building. It was textured enough to mean that you could walk without slipping, but there was no way that a hole had been punctured through it. Maybe the sharp curve of the roof window provided just enough shelter and curve to let a little dirt collect? Maybe the plant was actually rooted in a built up of the damned algae?

His mind whizzed and it took all his effort not to unwrap himself to go and look at it more closely. He dredged his memory, trying to remember all he’d seen about plants from the eduscreens before they shut down it’ was so long ago, and he’d never really been interested in the categories about “Old Earth”, preferring to dig through the guides to electronics, how the machinery around him worked and how it could be fixed. With there being no plants left and no wild animals bigger than dogs, it was all make believe to read about rain forests or savanna and the plants and animals that had lived there. He didn’t even remember the last time he’d seen actual dirt, earth. He lived in, on and under building, using the walkways and tubes to get about. There were still roads, but they were paved with plastimetal like everything else. Down under the buildings there must eventually be earth, but how far down he had no idea. He’s explored pretty deep under some buildings only to find older buildings had been built on top of, breaking through old roofs made of real stone slabs to make his way into ancient spaces, all smooth stone floors and tiles. Maybe they too were built on top of older buildings.

This plant must be something new. It was the only explanation. To cope with the lack of resources, the toxins, the weak sunlight and the biting winds, this must being something that has evolved or been created, or sent. Maybe the Arch had somehow parachuted down seeds to help those left on Earth? How could he nurture it, help it grow, make sure it wasn’t the last plant he ever saw? Maye scraping algae together to try and feed it would help? Would the algae not take over? Maybe he could explore until be found more dirt? It had to be somewhere, after all the whole damned planet was named after earth, surely mankind couldn’t have got rid of it all. Didn’t they ship it to the Arch to start with? Maybe they’d taken it all? Maybe he should try and move the little plant so it got more sun, or maybe using a piece of polished plastimetal to reflect more light onto it? Plants needed earth, water and sunlight, that he did remember. Surely more sunlight could only help. Maybe a windbreak or something to provide a little more shelter? Any heavy piece of piping or machinery would do, he could drag it into place and stop his little plant for being buffeted in the windows.

His eyes growing heavy, his mind still racing away, sleep eventually found him and he dreamt of plants and trees, animal and fish. He dreamt of the world he’d never known, barely seen on screens and only half remembered. His one tiny plant might be the start of something bigger, of planting the rooftops he knew and bringing the bright luscious green of the wild back to the world, of eating something for the first time in many years, not just swallowing another gelcap. He dreampt of a new world.

He woke with the first wan light, the sickly blue grey of early dawn, and rolling over opened his eyes to see the plant in colour for the first time, but it was gone.

