# Soul Custody

Nobody really cared about the walkers to begin with.  They were a mild annoyance when they bumped into you life, literally in most cases.  You'd see the odd one, wandering the streets, stumbling on and off public transport, sometimes bumping into other faster pedestrians, never apologizing, just carrying on their aimless wander.  One once lifted scone off my table has he drifted by the cafe I was drinking coffee outside, drifting off eating with one hand and never looking back.

Over time the numbers of walkers increased and we started to notice more and more what terrible shape they were in.  When they first came into the public conscious they were the subject of jokes and discussion, but nobody really worried about them.  We all got used to them, the novelty wore off, and they moved from news to nuisance, but as time wore on they just started to look worse and worse.  Where as previously they were shambolic an shambling, they just got worse and worse.  Their clothes got less and less well kept, they looked thinner and paler and their slow pace became a shuffle.   Worse still, the characteristic sores on on their temples and the nape of their necks grew form bald patches to sores and from sores to open wounds.  Looking somewhere between a bed sore and a burn, they because the hallmark of the Walkers, with the range of fancy dress tropes explaining to include them along with nurses, zombies and Romans in togas.

Speaking of the Z word, it wasn't long before it too became associated with the Walkers.  I guess it had always been there, but it wasn't the first word on everybodies tongue when this all started out, because when all this started, there were no Walkers, no disheveled zombies.  It all started out with the prison crisis.   

By the time I was starting to get into trouble, the global prison system was in trouble.  We'd not figured out that just punishing folks does nothing for the rates of recidivism and the physical prisons were at breaking point.  Tracking brackets and other similar schemes were being used everywhere, sentences were being cut short for any reason that the media wouldn't balk at and reoffeding rates were sky high.  The vicious cycle continued with the firebrands calling for longer, harder and more rougher sentences, and the prison systems collapsing under the strain, releasing offers early, and with nothing to come out to, reoffending.  The media screamed, the firebrands curses and the cycle fired up again.  

The actual name of who came up with the idea of the rigs is lost in time, and they're probably doing everything they can to keep it that way.  The company is still around though, in fact it seems unlikely there's a person left on the planet who doesn't know that name aside from it now being being the biggest conglomerate in the world, it's written large on every Walkers face with those burns.  Maybe it's a coincidence their logo is three neat circles in an offset triangle, but it's certainly fitting.

So back to history.  The world had a huge prison problem and society was yelling itself horse about it, but nobody was coming up with answer.  Step up to the plate said company and their latest technology.  Instead of incarcerating prisoners 24x7 for years at a time, having to feed them, entertain them, educate them and stop them from killing each other in creative and violent ways, what if they were put to work.  Gone are the days of chain-gangs and rock breaking, that doesn't scale to today's society problems, the world runs on compute power now and if there's one thing every human is great at, it's thinking.  The Venn diagram of these two problems seemed too good to be true.  No longer did your average offender go to jail, instead they worked all day, got paid, and slept at night, absolutely exhausted.

When somebody slips on the delicate silver headset, the three contact discs are pressed into their skin forming a neat triangle, both sides of the temples and the nape of the neck.  The pressure is firm but not uncomfortable and a little light shaving and a drop of water based gel makes it all work a bit more efficiently.  Once they're "wired in" they lie back on a couch or chair, slump into a beanbag or even crash onto a mattress and they're put to work.  The effect is something like dreaming, except overlay-ed onto your view of the world, odd colours and patterns smearing your vision, objects and hard lines glitching in your vision.

Most people end up closing their eyes and riding it out, like a bad trip or motion sickness, just waiting for it to end, not that if feels like time is really passing.  You're not really there whilst the discs are stuck to you, you're in the backseat and the system is driving.  What the headsets to is fire stimuli into the brain, let it churn about and pick out the results.  Whatever is being fired in makes no sense, there's no risk of you magically becoming aware of the nuclear secrets your brain is encoding and decoding on the fly, or you catching a glimpse of the building plans your brain is pushing through modelling calculations about, it's all just noise.  That's what the visions are, the other bits of your rain trying to understand what's going on, trying to make sense of this new sense you'd suddenly acquired  Most see things, some hear things, really unlucky people feel the side effects as their brain tries to make sense of it all, reacting as if the nerves in your hand have just told it you've plunged you hand into boiling water, or you've stepped off the edge of a building and you're in free fall, or your chest has opened up and you can feel the wind blowing against your heart.

When the timer pings and you slide back into reality you're exhausted.  You've burnt though thousands of calories, your eyes ache, your body aches, your mouth is dry and your ears ring.  You've put in a hard days work and all you want to do is eat, drink endless water, and sleep.  You're not about to go out shoplifting, you're not going to drink and smoke your way to a frenzy, you're going to stagger home and sleep like you spent the day humping lumber or banging in fence posts, or stooping to pick litter or indeed, breaking rocks. The good news is, you've been paid.  Minimum wage, for at least 8 hours, direct into your bank account, that day too.  If you want KFC on the way home, you can afford it now.

Predictably the conservatives loved it. Yes, there was a media storm of stories about prisoners "sleeping though their sentence" and the like, but as more and more celebrity podcasters, YouTubers and politicians tried it for a day and declared it a hard days work for the public good, the more they love it, finally the chaingangs were back and porridge meant porridge. Yes, we now had to provide workhouses for those serving sentences to turn up to and work at, but that was easy and cheap compared to actual jails and look at the video of them stumbling out at the end of the day, debt to society being repaid and them making a meaningful contribution to society too!  They even got paid, where was the problem?

After a few hiccups and misfires, the system was implemented in almost every country.  The more progressive governments combined it with education and welfare schemes, running the computation at a lower rate so that convicts still have the brain power and energy at the end of the day to attend classes.  The less progressive governments ran at high rates and paid less, getting the most out of people.  They had higher rates of reoffending too, but they didn't care.

Like all zombie movies, when the problems started to emerge it was in the bits of the world the Western world didn't care about, and most of the cases were written off as rumors and social media exploits.  Sure, if you work a criminals brain really hard all day for a few months, they're going to be a bit slow and off colour when they've served their sentence.   They're going to drift a bit, wander a bit, maybe struggle to communicate brilliantly, but they've enough credits in their account to keep them from committing crime to survive and over time this will all wear off, won't it.   The videos of rake thin young men, eyes sunken, vests hanging off their hollow chests, straggled hair barely covering the open sores on their faces as the appear to deliberately run out in front of tube trains and busses or to shamble into the sea oblivious to the waves as they vanished from sight were all badly shot on mobile phones as people realised what was going on, or caught over the shoulder of the teen taking a video selfie.  There weren't around for long either, often being graphically violent, with take down notices and issued by groups dedicated to protecting children from dangerous imagry or church groups or right-wing think tanks, but over time the numbers grew and the deaths weren't limited to countries people could ignore. 

By then though it, it wasn't just criminals who were wiring in and serving their sentence.  People had started to realise it might a great gig job.  You've retired, you've nothing to fill your days, your pension doesn't really cover the luxuries you'd planned for, why not wire in for a few hours every day and earn some shuffleboard money.  No need to run the rigs at full pelt and tire yourself out, just sit back, zone out and let your brain earn you enough to buy a few drinks that evening after you've spent the afternoon out of the house.  Retirement homes even got in on the act, advertising their reduced rates for those happy to "work their mornings", everybody won.

So as the number of Walkers grew, in every guise from lost old lady to tattooed gangster, the tide started to turn on wiring in, but we were in too deep.  It wasn't that we'd abandoned computers, far from it, there was more computing power that ever, but chips and boards were just too expensive and reserved for the kind of work that couldn't but split up and farmed out to a million human brains over the networks, only to be reassembled seconds later.  Governments had server farms.  The paranoid and the remote had servers.  Everybody else had WorkFlow, and that was it.  That' what it was called by the way, WorkFlow.  So innocuous, sowholesome.  That's marketing and branding for you I guess.   

We were addicted and frankly, we didn't have very many options left, so we kept using it, kept wiring-in, maybe only running at reduced rates if we could help it, to avoid becoming a Walker.  Those who couldn't help it, those locked into housing contracts predicated on "social commitment", the prisoners and the poor, they just had to keep blasting along, crossing their fingers that all they got out at the end was being Earth shattingly tired and a handful of credits.

That's how I lost my dad and finally my mum.  My dad hadn't been well for years and the medical bills were starting to bite.  My mum wired-in for a few hours each day whilst my dad was napping, so take the edge off the string of the latest insurance bill.  She didn't run hot, not that we knew about the problems back then, and seems to enjoy the time. She was the only person I ever saw who could be wired-in and doing something else.  Somehow the lizard bit of her brain could knit whilst the rest of her brain was mining cryptocurrency or calculating wind vectors for a shipping container ship whatever else WorkFlow had sliced, diced and downloaded to her.  Her hands moved with a steady rhymes, knitting and perling, every row the exact same length, every stitch neat as a button.  Sometimes I'd find her wired in, eyes closed, hands moving, the ball of wool long since finishes and the worked piece on the floor.  I guess she was on autopilot, her hands doing what they'd done for all my life until then.

My dad was another story.  He had a degenerative problem, loosing his mobility and getting increasingly more and more frustrated with his failing body.  He was sharp as a tack and eventually he started wiring in at the same time as my mum. He'd work for a few hours, sitting in his chair, and sleep for the afternoon, and they'd spent the evening together.  Over time he started ramping up the level of work, but not the hours.  His argument was he was already tired, why not push t a bit more, make a few more credits whilst he could, and sleep a bit deeper that afternoon.  Mum wasn't best pleased at first, but she settled into it.  When he didn't stir for the first alarm she'd let him sleep on, knowing he was tired from a hard morning.  Eventually he'd slip off the headset and sleep until the next day, snoozing in his chair.  This continued until his health really started to fade, his evenings lost to recuperation, the extra few credits going unspent.   After he died, thinned that I'd ever expected, mum went the same way.  I don't know if she thought I needed the credits, I'd catch her transferring me some every so often, or if she just didn't have anything else to do, but she too ramped up the rates, worked longer and slept more.  We'd lost touch by the time she finally passed, me burning myself up trying to fix the world, not looking at my own family.  I'll never get that time back, never stop regretting what happened to them both, I was too busy trying to save the world to save them.  Maybe they wet out as they planned, but I doubt it, I think the combination of loneliness and the guilty of an overactive work ethic lead them down the path of wiring-in and I was too far up my own arse to see it.

That's old history though, they've both been dead years and I failed to save the world just like I failed to save them.  When I finally surfaced from my mission and looked out on all that was going on, I broke.  I don't mean in a dramatic sense, there was no screaming rampage, no mid life crisis, I just, well, stopped caring about others.  I got into some of the excellent recreational chemicals that were around at the time and spent several years surfing crimson waves of fire and rage, dove the deep blue waters of unknown calm and feeling energy blasting out of me like lightening strikes I was always amazed not to be able to see as I tore up a dance floor in some abandoned car park.  I had a high old time, and I burnt though every credit I'd stashed away.  I burnt though every friend I'd ever had and I made none who lasted more than a few sunrises, and eventually I had to face reality, and I wired-in, started earning a few credits to keep me in ramen from lean-to shacks and cigarettes.

That was years ago now, it must have been, looking down at my hands, which look like they belong to somebody else, somebody younger and more focused.  As the wind pushes me about I stare out at the world, watching the clouds on the horizon boiling towards me, shifting and merging, turning in on themselves and imploding, forming out of nowhere as they march towards me.  From up here it all seems so calm, not like the inside of my head.  That's the thing about being wired-in, eventually you're aware you're doing it.  You sit there and feel your own brain churning through thoughts that are alien to you, but you're still there, watching yourself, feeling more than the sickness and seeing more than the colours.  That little bit of you that's still you has hardened and calcified over the years, walled itself off from the rest of you that somebody else is renting by the hour, made it's home right in the back of  your lizard brain.   When you finally slid the headset off, feel the discs tugging at your skull as the scab breaks, you don't emerge like you used to.  You can feel how tired your body is and you find yourself catching glimpses out though your own eyes as you wander the streets or stare blankly at whatever is in front of you, but you don't venture back out into your brain like you used to, you stay back here where it's safe and warm and yours.  No electrical signal will punch through into here and drive you out of your head, replacing you with the screaming noise of nucleotide processing or dictionary attacks, this is where you live now, and eventually, when you reliase what's happening, you try to do something about it.   From brief and precious moments, your mind and your body are your own again.  Rusty and stiff, moving jankily and spasmodiclly, you take back control for a brief few moments, feeling the physical and mental exhaustion of a hard days work, and try to do something of your choosing, until you can't do it because you're just too tired and you retreat back into that hardened nest at the top of of your skull.

Today, right now, whenever that might be, I'm walking across this rooftop.  I think it might be a carpark, one where I lost untold amounts of time in a past life I can only remember in glimpses.  Was this where there was cocktail bar on the roof I could no longer afford but would hang around, hoping to meet somebody but mostly just chewing my own teeth and staring furiously as the DJ as I screwfaced my face through hour after hour of bass?  Maybe, I don't remember.  I can't see any evidence of any of that any more, but the view seems familiar, right up until I step off. 

