
# The Sea

# Aug 10, 2014

Crouched with my knees jammed under the edge of the table, hunched forward because of a duct running along the wall behind me, twisted to one side to avoid the plated and padded shoulder of the trolleyman wedged in next to me, I can’t help being a little disappointed that I didn’t have a better place. The few credits I’d saved up for these few minutes of pleasure already felt wasted. I was wound up, tired, aching and far from comfortable. The table top was battered and scarred, scratches of all depth worming across it’s surface, burns where others had left their smokesticks to smoulder as the washed out, the multilayered laminate flaking apart. This was not the luxury experience that the posters on the door promised. They showed clean and chiselled featured models reclining on plush velvet sofa, sipping the vapour from elegant glass and chrome washers, relaxed and contend expressions on their faces as they washed out in cloud of elegant smoke. Friends enjoying the latest that the corporation had to offer.

The reality was far more grimy. Twenty or so tables were crammed into the long L shaped room, metal folding chairs scattered about, mostly one to a table, too low to sit at comfortable, to narrow to sprawl on, they were there to make sure you left as soon as you surfaced. The lighting was low, mostly the sickly yellow streaming in from the street through fly splattered windows edges with the blue and green of the indicator lights in the base of the washers, winking down from five to one, new to gone, first breath to the stuttering cough as the washmix ran out and you slid back to reality, the room fading back into view like the station appearing out of the dark as the trolley arrived.

The patrons were the usual mix of undesirables, here to escape for an hour or two before heading back to their bunks or jobs. There were fading uniforms, the odd tool of the trade visible and the telltale signs of those who shunned the bunkrooms and slept in the streets. Thicker jackets, hoods that zipped over, camouflage patterning who mottled colours and odd angular lines might give you a fighting chance of being missed by the roving eyes of the metric teams, sliding down the streets silently, looking for those who turned their backs on the corporates gifts. It was bullshit and we all knew it, the “gifts” being traded for your time, health, body, mind, soul and ultimately life. Those who tried to survive outside the system died young and lead harder lives, but so they told me, lived free. Free to freeze, free to starve, free to be beaten to death by a passing metric officer who’s targets for prosperity were down that month. One less sider on his patch upped his metric and maybe his bunk was elevated to a cubby or even pod. I’d never had a pod, with it’s two separate rooms and if you were lucky, a window.

I’d once shared a cubby with another apprentice for a few torrid days and nights. We’d stumbled again it’s door and stared as it folded open. The current occupant lay sleeping in the bed and hadn’t closed the lock. We both stared in, only really seeing the inside of a cub for the first time, having bedded in bunks and hangers all of our lives. Only he wasn’t sleeping, he’d died, and only recently too. We slid him from the bed, rolling his body to the edge and then lowering him to the floor, and fucked under his still warm cover. A first for both of us I imagine, rather than awkward trysts against walls or precarious moments in hangers, painfully aware of those near you, constantly trading off a good rhyme again flipping the hanger over and dropping you both onto the floor or the hanger below. Those few days we crashed in his pod until we had to leave were some of the most pleasurable in years, glimpsing what it was like to have a door that folded shut and a bed you could lie two abreast. Even the quiet, not being surrounded by the snored, grunts, moans and breathy noises of the rest of the bunkhouse seemed such a luxury. God alone knows what a pod was like.

My washer arrived, delivered by the fat grease stained owner, unceremoniously put onto the table. From a sling around his waist he produced the glass vial of wash, rubbing it’s chromed cap against his sleeve as he handed it over to me, the pale blue wash inside both viscus and too liquid at the same time. Nobody but the corporation could make wash, though many tried and more sold homebrewed washes. It almost looked like it was glowing as it rolled over itself into the glass.

“Shined up nice this one” said the owner, holding the vial up into a beam of light, “the better the shine the better the seal, and the better the seal the deeper the dive right?”. Everybody who handled wash had their own rituals, rubbing seal, rolling the vial between the palms of their hands (“warmer innit, streams up faster”), drinking small hot mint teas (“make the blood flow”), even how the vials were loaded into the washer (“twist right and then down, right then down”). I was ninety percent certain that it make no difference. Wash was a chemical and chemicals just don’t care if you treat them nice.

“New vial that one too, it’ll fit nice and tight, you’ll get good pull on it” he carried on, seemly oblivious to my lack of reply and outstretched hand. It’s not that I didn’t want to be friendly, I’d be back here again if this was a good dive, but everything he said I’d heard a hundred times.

“Sure you want this one? Nobody wants this one, I’ve got hundreds of them back there” he gestured over his shoulder with a thumb. “I might be able to do you a deal on a handful it you really want, make room for the more popular ones, those new pink fires or wasabibis people keep asking for.”

I must have shaken my head, though I didn’t mean to. Maybe my lack of reply made it obvious. I didn’t want a deal, I couldn’t afford a deal, and I didn’t want any other wash other than the one I’d ordered. Sea was my wash of choice, always had been, might be that it always was. I scrimped by until I could afford the time it bought me, and I found a wash shop I’d not been to before, and I slip into the deep. I didn’t want the teeth grinding, eye swelling, crystal high that other washes brought. The sharp acidic smells that felt like you were sipping fire, or the sensations of your extremities beginning to both loose sensation and becoming super sensitive so that the flaky table surface was like exploring a foreign land with your fingertips. The girl from the cub had sworn by a pale pink wash, The Dragons Eyes, and I’d tried it a few times. It started gently, like being buoyed about in the water tanks I worked in sometimes, but the noise grew and your teeth felt big in your face, and as the dragon ride reached it’s peak I’d felt like I was being dragged into the sky by my septum, my body hanging behind my nose as I rocketed skywards, my feet trailing behind me as my vision wiped out in a sky of neon pink finally burning out to pure white and then, nothing. The room drifted by into vision and I wasn’t standing pointing my nose in the air, streamlined by the wind, I was slumped in the awkward metal chair, one knee wedged under the other leg, the wash nozzle hanging limply from one hand as the girl crammed in next to me surfaced and stared around like it was a fresh new world. The the same worn and tired world she’d escaped from again. No, the Dragon was amazing in it’s own right, but it wasn’t the wash for me.

“All set, let her charge a minute more, and off you go” The owner turned his back on me and I stared at the vial, now chrome cap hidden in the tube at on the top of the washer. The level of the pale blue liquid had dropped a little as the wash sucked in the first of the vial. I could guess at what went on inside the washer, it wasn’t complicated. I’d spend all my life dangling on the end of cables and ropes inside the walls of factories and other bits of the corporation, digging out cabling and board, tracing circuits and control boards to figure out why something wasn’t doing what it should be. The washers only job was to deliver the wash in a steam at a carefully regulated dose. There was no dial to turn up the rate, not way to overdose or control your experience, the corporation retained all the control.

As the fifth LED in the base of the washed came on and pulsed gently to tell me it was up to temperature and pressure I wiped the end of the nozzle with my sleeve (it was hardly cleaner but the shine was satisfying in itself), held it between my teeth in the corner of my mouth, and pushed to start button, easing it down in trepidation of the retaining click and the first taste of the wash.

The nozzle jerked very slightly and the first of the wash pushed cold condensation from the last use into my mouth. It was sharp to the taste but seemed to evaporate instantly, leaving me with the slightly wretched taste of leather, oil, smoke and the unmistakable acrid smell of ammunition. Whoever had washed before me had been into something brutal, I felt the roar of firefight in my ears, smelt the coppery blood and sweet sharp tang of cordite, I felt my muscles tense as my fight or flight response kicked in and I was ready to do battle, to punch and kick and swing a blade or a length of pipe, to mane and kill and rape and run, to fight because my life depended on it until I couldn’t lift a limb or take anther breath, and, and, and it started to fade as the Sea came through. The condensed steam of the last washer was only the tiniest drop of wash but it had left my heart thumbing in my chest and my hands clenched so hard my nails had dug into my palms. At full strength whomever they were must have felt like a god, or a machine or like war itself, but all I wanted was the Sea.

That first deep lung full of stream and wash is the only one I ever remember taking. It’s a learned skill, being able to breath deeply and evenly, drawing the wet hot stream deep into you , holding it and blowing it out of your nose whilst remaining deep, holding your dive down whilst still pulling the wash into your system, but it becomes second nature, like breathing itself. Easier really now that the streets are so toxic. That first deep lungful almost feels cold, and tasty salty, organic, reminiscent of the crisp green “seaweed” on the top of the rice in the leantos. The seaweed has never been near the sea, probably isn;t even seaweed, but the salty fresh yet musty vegetable smell and taste aren’t unlike the Sea.

I feel my body buoyed up as the Sea rolls over me. My body starts to loose it’s weight and my limbs drift away from my core as I lean back into the deep blue, letting it hold me, raise me, guide me up and gently down, the swell seeming to match my slowing heartbeat. I stare up into deep blue above me, seeing but not seeing the scattering of tiny lights, stars lose in the vast brooding darkness. I’m trapped on the interface of two bodies, the sea below and sky above, each as rich and flowing as the other, yet so different. Below m the sea drops away and I go with it, feeling the rush as I a hurtle down, the curve of the wave catching me, holding me, cradling me like a babe in the crook of an arm, as I slide up the other side, never scared, no lost, but part of the sea itself.

The Sea is neither warm, nor cold. It’s reassuring, all powerful, benevolent and mothering. The Sea holds me like no other, like no hanger ever has, nor lover, not even the clothes I sit in seem to wrap me like the Sea. As a younger I used to pull the sides of my hanging in at night, even daring to roll right along its axis risking being dumped onto the sleeper below, so I was cocooned, cosseted and held tight by the mesh. More than once I’d seem youngers rolled out of thier hangers, high up in the bunkroom, maybe getting lucky and crashing into the sleeper below and clinging on. The sleeper was never happy to have a scrabbling, grasping, screaming younger clatter into them from 10 feet above, but they grabbed and clung on, even if the younger probably got a jab to the face for their troubles. Few want to watch another crashing to the ground tens of metres below, their final resting place a broken heap of limbs unceremoniously dropped amongst the filth and litter of the bunkroom floor. The older you grew the lower you could claim your hanger, if you hadn’t managed to elevate yourself to a cub or a pod, assuming you managed to age.

The Sea would never drop me, never roll me out onto the floor, never drown me. As the wash seeped into my system I dived deeper, feeling the Sea roll over me, the sounds in my ears changing. The washery was still there but muted, irrelevant, lost to the Sea. I become aware of my face, the surface tingling, my eyes feeling the weight of the Sea, the slow rhythmic undulations, the calm and the power and stillness. I can feel my body gently curving as I lie back and my feet rise, the heavy work boots I always have worn defying gravity as their metal plates and buckles drift slowly upward and a sink bum first, my arms trailing out to my sides and the salt and earth of the sea fill my mouth, my lungs, my very insides. The Sea holds me, and I hold the sea, drifting ever down.

I let my head lead, and drift ever downward, the light and sounds gone from my world. No more sleepers, no more machines, no neon or rain or bleeping or squeaking. Nothing vies for my attention. I am calm. As I drift onwards I realise I’m not sinking, but rising. Every so slowly the Sea is releasing me, sending me back to the world, to the city, to the noise. My rising onward, the light growing from the dark, first the deepest of blue, but fading as I surface. I can feel the swell again, rocking me, twisting me gently, pulling at my outstretched arms ever so gently. I look look, expecting to see the sky coming into view, but there is just the Sea, still vast and omnipotent. As I stare the star begin to show, small clusters, some winking, forming out of the dark and growing bigger and clearer. I watch as a cluster of five winks out and becomes a cluster of four, the forth pulsing and winking at me, it’s three neighbours holding firm, their middles bright and clear, their edges defused, fading into the dark. I focus on the winking member, holding it in my sight, basking in its weak glow. Long ago I learned to surface from the Sea carefully, being pushed back into reality, having a star to guide me. The winking star changes colour, becoming first a brighter blue, then the green of the mosses and moulds and finally, as I surface the bright and manufactured green of the LED in the base of a washer on the next table.

My own washer still has one light on, winking slowly, telling me I’ve come to the end of this dive. There’s one more good breath left maybe and I pull it in, suddenly conscious of the wet patch on my top, the cold water drip formed on the end of my nose, the drool and sweat pooling in the folds of my neck where my head lolled to one side as I drifted. The stuttering cough catches me out and I don’t get my full lung, only a gasped mouthful before the the button on the washer pops out, resoundly marking the end of my dive. I blow out the wash and steam, coughing a little as the last of it leaves me, and pull the first breath of the rest of my life. Already I can feel the aches and the pain of the day, my right hand swollen and scraped where I’d forced it down a conduit to retrieve my point tester after I dropped it. My boots anchor me to the ground and I level myself up, leaving the nozzle dangling spent on the table top. As I push out through the hanging polythene sheeting and back out into the street night is falling and the neon stands out proud in the dusty, blinking, shouting, screaming for my attention, as the last waves of the Sea leave me aground.

